


Automatic Zoom
Shuhan ZhengUniversity of Toronto Institute for Aerospace Studies (UTIAS)
shuhan_zheng@outlook.com | (+1) 438-495-6697 | github.com/ThisisShoo |
https://www.linkedin.com/in/shuhan-zheng-439774192/
Summary
M.Eng graduate from the University of Toronto. Demonstrated strong experience in streamlining complex analytical problem
solutions via approaches grounded in first principles. I bring expertise in physics-aware software development, especially those
pertaining to nonlinear behaviors in dynamical systems, or those that require intensive computation. Multidisciplinary engineering,
large data-driven functions, and complex cross-system work are also in my forte. Supplementary skills in electronics, mechanical
prototyping, and systems-level analysis.
Education
University of Toronto Institute for Aerospace Studies (UTIAS) 2024–2026
M.Eng. in Aerospace Engineering
Coursework: Spacecraft Dynamics and Control, Control Theory, Computational Fluid Dynamics, Project Management, Operations
Management, etc.
University of Toronto 2020–2024
Honours B.Sc. with double majors in Physics and Astronomy & Astrophysics
Experience
Research Assistant / Supervised Research Project Spring 2024–Present
University of Toronto Institute for Aerospace Studies, Aerospace Mechatronics Lab
•Abstract accepted by AMOS 2026 as first author: Dichotomizing Temporarily Bound Objects Using Capture States.
•Large data-enabled Space Domain Awareness study powered by techniques such as statistical modeling and probabilistic neural
networks, enabling rapid and early detection of mission-viable asteroids.
Research Assistant 2023–2024
University of Toronto, Near Field Cosmology Group
•Built a turnkey solution for automatic retrieval, sanitizing, and cataloging of stellar data, with a portable interface for
machine-learning model ingestion.
•Project adopted by the Near Field Cosmology Group; the resulting databases supports subsequent publications.
Research Assistant Intern Summer 2023
China Spallation Neutron Source, Chinese Academy of Sciences
•Independently developed a Python-based deterministic simulation tool for generating synthetic polarized-neutron images of
magnetized samples.
•Computational time reduced from days to hours compared to conventional Monte Carlo methods.
Space Systems Member 2021–2023
University of Toronto Aerospace Team
•Implemented and tested image-correction algorithms for hyperspectral remote-sensing data in collaboration with the optics
team. The algorithms will support the upcoming FINCH microsatellite mission.
•Co-authored team design papers for the 2022 and 2023 Small Satellite Conferences as a member of the FINCH mission team.
Vice-President, Internal and External Affairs 2023–2024
University of Toronto Physics Student Union
•Managed the organization, logistics, and coordination of outreach, fundraising, social, and academic events.
•Acted as a liaison between faculty and students.
OPS & Safety Operator 2026Launch Canada
•Responsible for assisting the launch OPS and Safety team, enforcing launch pad clearance and compliance to launch safety
regulations.
Projects
AMAT - Agentic Mission Analysis Toolbox
Independent Software Project (Link: GitHub)
•AI harness and toolbox for reliable application in spaceflight mission design.
•End-to-end solution to convert user intent into real, mission-ready spacecraft flight plans, with interactive visualization capabilities
for human-in-the-loop verification and validation.
•Compatible with a range of missions, from LEO to cis-lunar and beyond.
GMAT Automation for Asteroid Trajectory Prediction
Astrodynamics Course Project (Link: GitHub)
•Monte Carlo simulation of real asteroid trajectories for prediction of future Earth encounters.
•Earth encounter predictions verified consistent with published journal literature.
Catalog Acquisition and Compilation tool CACT
Astronomy Capstone Project (Link: GitHub)
•Autonomous data retrieval, sanitizing, and management pipeline with user interface API.
•Scalable scientific database solution designed for hierarchical and relational data.
Polarization-modulated Optical Communication Demonstrator
Electronics Course Project
•Built a prototype for serial transmission of binary information via laser link.
Publications
•Miles, A., Maranto, D., Xu, S., et al., Zheng, S., et al. (2022). FINCH: A Blueprint for Accessible and Scientifically Valuable
Remote Sensing Satellite Missions. Small Satellite Conference, Weekend Session 7: Science/Mission Payloads – Research &
Academia II, Utah State University, Logan, UT. https://digitalcommons.usu.edu/smallsat/2022/all2022/88/
•Vyse, I., Dagli, R., Chadha, D. V., Ma, J. P., Chen, H., et al., Zheng, S., & Nguyen, K. (2024). Beyond the Visible: Jointly
Attending to Spectral and Spatial Dimensions with HSI-Diffusion for the FINCH Spacecraft. Small Satellite Conference, Session
X: Ground Systems, Utah State University, Logan, UT. https://digitalcommons.usu.edu/smallsat/2024/all2024/121/
Skills
Programming and Analysis: MATLAB, LaTeX
Aerospace and Simulation Tools: GMAT, STK, COMSOL Multiphysics, SolidWorks, CFD
